The Joe Rogan experience.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and I'm walking around and it, do you know, how did you,
how long were you monk for? I was a monk for about six and a half years. Wow.
Yeah. And it was a, it was a great time in life. And how old were you? Let me,
I was 22. So from 22 to 28, you were monk. I was a monk.
That means salibate no masturbating,
nothing 70 year or seven and a half where' years. Did you live?
I lived in ashrams in India and in America and I traveled all over the world
actually. Wow. But it was, it was I,
but I I'll tell you what brought me to that place after the,
after being very materially frustrated. And I,
I said those two main factors were some type of material success.
I wasn't the Beatle and I wasn't, you know, Michael Jackson,
but I had some materials that I had fans. Um,
and then realizing how life can get taken away from you in a moment with the,
with, with that precarious place.
My father was at it just made me start thinking,
what the hell am I doing in this short, in this short life?
What am I supposed to do? Give me some GPS. Give me some,
where do I go from here? What do I want out of life? What is the,
what is a home run? Is it just to be as very famous? Is that,
is that the home run, is it to be, uh, collect tons of stuff?
Is that a home run is to live a natural life.
Is that a home run is to learn some art, you know,
some type of art is that a home run? And so this was my, my burning question.
And, um, now I was still a new Yorker. I was still sort of like, uh, you know,
New York in the eighties. So I was like a little street, smart, new Yorker.
I'm actually from Connecticut, but I, uh, started hanging out in New York city.
My parents were new Yorkers. And so we used to my older brothers,
lived in the city, so I I'd visit them. But some the time I was 14,
I used to just go to New York city and just hang out on the weekends. And, uh,
when I became a, a monk or, and went to India,
I had saved about 25,000 bucks. Not a lot of money, not,
not tons of money, but it was, you know, some money I made,
I thought in my brain, okay, this is my cynical self. I'm gonna go to India.
I'm gonna meet a guru. The guru's gonna want all my money. This is how it works.
<laugh> but when I actually lived with the monks India,
especially India, then 1988,
there is no central AC and it's hot. There's no heat.
And it's cold in the winter. The showers are freezing,
cuz all the water's kept on a tank on the roof of the asram in the summer.
That water's super hot, cuz it's all kept on a tank on top of the asram.
There's no creature comforts whatsoever. You go to bed early,
you wake up super early, you go to bed, you know, eight 30,
you wake up three o'clock in the morning.
There's nothing that there's nothing to buy. There's nothing to purchase.
All the fun things that we like to,
to like ease the pain of existence are not there. Um,
you know, there's no movies, there's no television,
there's no comedy there there's nothing.
And so two things happen when you strip everything away from a person,
they lose it, they hop the fence,
so to speak and I've seen that happen or they learn to find their pleasure from
something more subtle.
And so when I first went there and saw the joy of the monks, I realized
they don't want my money. They don't want anything. I have to offer them.
I want what they have.
That was sort of a game changer moment for me.
I wanna figure out how to be connected with nothing.
What did these guys do all day? <laugh> I.
Don't know. They have the different stuff. I think. Yeah, everybody does.
And every asrom's got their own thing. You know what I mean?
Did you have chores that.
You had to do to, to earn your food? Like.
Yeah. Everybo, you know, every ashram is gonna be different and every,
uh, spiritual path there's Christian monks and you know,
monks from different traditions around the world.
I'm sure they all got their thing, different things.
But later I started doing my next band because the interesting thing about the
Baga Bagda Baga bagdas,
you're familiar with it's one chapter of the biggest epic in the world,
the mahabart and it's a,
it's the most studied and discussed and commented on by all the saints
of ancient India. Um, people even bringing it to politics and stuff,
but it's a real conversation between the spirit
and dev divinity. It's a conversation about, uh,
just about, it's just, it's just considered ancient wisdom for all people.
So the,
one of the ideas of the Gita is you don't give up what you're born to do.
You do what you do, but in a spiritual way,
you don't try to like wipe out your desires. It's not gonna happen.
You take what you do and you do it in a way that is gonna assist you
in your liberation. And is it gonna assist everybody else? So, um,
even I'll say I love comedy,
but I want comedy that uplifts me and not doesn't degrade me.
I like entertainment that when I walk away from it, I learn something.
I feel like I'm growing. I feel connected. I don't want stuff.
That's gonna just give me darker thoughts. Like.
Okre.
I I've never seen it. You didn't see it.
I didn't I'm I wanna say that I live on a farm <laugh> I live
on a farm. We rare. I rarely watch anything except comedy. I love comedy.
Um, cause I think laughing's important. Um, but I don't watch so much TV.
Um, so I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm pretty,
if I do go to the movie movies it's out of like with my wife, let's just,
we wanna get away from the kids. We wanna do something. Right. Um,
but there's no plan on what to watch, but I'm open to good ideas.
The jokers, a really good movie, but it's really dark. It's really dark.
Like you walk out there feeling really confused. Like you're like,
did I like that? I don't know if I liked that. I know it was awesome.
I know it was really well done, but did I like that?
And it's this it's a it's complicated. I mean, we could get,
we could talk about the joker for the next two hours.
You know, I don't get lost in the wind. You know,
the mind is like a garage and <affirmative> you become like what you store in
that garage. Mm-hmm <affirmative> so the thoughts,
the thoughts that we put in the mind, we gotta be careful with. Yeah.
The words just,
we were talking about mantras before there mantras are like repetitive sounds,
but they're consideredtranscendental sounds so I chant the Harry Christianna
mantra. So the Christianna mantra,
you might have known it from the soundtrack of hair. Harry C Krisna,
Harry Christian, a Christian Christianna, Harry Harry, Harry Ramma,
Harry Ramma Ramma Ramma Harry Harry it's considered a transcendental sound for
the mind and it sort of connects the,
the soul with divinity. It doesn't matter what religion you are.
It's considered a mantra, a sound vibration. That is a potency on the Mon,
which where they get the word mantra from. It delivers the Mon or the man.
So what we store in the mind starts to create our external
being. And if you don't believe in it, it's one of those things.
We have mantras in our mind. Anyway,
I have things on loop running through my mind that have been handed to me from
parents, from, uh, from, uh,
elementary school teachers from a crazy uncle for whatever we get things handed
to us and we play them on repeat.
And sometimes they're mantras of self-eprecation self-loathing you're not good
enough. And these are the mantras running through the mind.
So the yoga system says,
notice those mantras that's part of self edification or self-reism you
notice what's playing in the mind and you replace those mantras with
transranscendental sound or at the very least training the mind
to see greatness in people. That's a big thing. Mmhmm, because the mind,
the way the material mind wants to see like what are Joe shortcomings, right?
Cause if <affirmative>, if I find your shortcomings,
it makes me feel better about myself, right? That's crazy thinking it. If,
if you've got thousands of shortcomings that doesn't make me better at all.
So the material mind,
which is sees one as so insecure that I have to lash out
at other people to make myself feel whole. And it's just crazy,
crazy think and stink and thinking.
Whereas the Yogagi trains, I,
I specifically teach BTI yoga, which is a it's it's a,
it's called the yoga of connection or the yoga of the heart.
And it starts to deal with all the essence of the teachings of the GDA,
which is you train yourself to see greatness in other people.
And if I start to note it it's good. You could take this from a micro,
like my relationship with you. I want to notice all of Joe's great qualities.
Now, when you hear that, you might think, well, he doesn't really know me.
I got some bad qualities.
Immediately makes you a little vulnerable and you start to think well,
but you appreciate it. And, and anybody in our life who appreciates us,
sometimes they even see things in us. We can't see in ourselves.
We want to become like that.
That's why this idea of changing the world really starts with your self
connection is I am a spiritual being.
Joe is a spiritual being and I start train myself in not
seeing what Joe does wrong, seeing everything he does. Right.
And it's a great exercise for the brain. What does that duke person do? Right?
What is the good in this person that I, that I'm overlooking? Cuz I'm just,
I've got these lens.
It's a lens that we wear of trying to find shortcomings in people.
And it screws people up tremendously. Even so-called spiritual people. Mm.
I just enrolled. Yeah. You can cork me anytime you want.
So you spent six and a half years living like this in this.
Saram just trying to sort things out. No, no sex, no masturbation.
What are you eating? None of what kind of food they serve you.
Uh, strict vegetarian diet. And, and not only that, the I,
this is an interesting point too.
And it's debated about in, especially, you know, I was a rough foodist.
So these rough food is they're all,
everyone's got their take on medicine and healing.
Let me share the Yogi perspective of it. Okay.
The missing ingredient in food, the vitamin,
the super food that has never spoken about is love.
Food is supposed to be, uh, grown,
prepared, and then offered. And the offering is not even to a human.
The offering is to God. That's called prsaded food is first called Boga.
Boga means it's for enjoyment. And then you take that enjoyment.
But before you enjoy it, you are offering it first back, like in sacrifice.
The idea is that everything in this world is not for me. Everything is,
I'm not the center. I'm here to serve the center.
So all food takes on the consciousness of the prepare
of the food. Mm.
So to eat junk food or to have people in very low
consciousness, cooking your food, you're taking that into your body.
You're taking the consciousness of the prepare of the food. Do you believe that?
I definitely believe it. Yeah.
I definitely would feel a tangible effect if I walked
outside that line.
So for years I'd only eat food cooked by broins like,
like the priests of the asram or I would cook it myself or
later, I have a very weird story, which was,
I became a bunch of my friends that were monks.
We started our own band and we started a record label,
a second record label in the astronm <laugh> I kid you not,
it's almost an unbelievable story. And perhaps the first time,
historically there was a celibate rock and roll band, but this band ended up,
ended up becoming bigger than the second band. This was my band shelter. And um,
so what happened was this band, when we started though,
we were all monks and we would take a candy stove on tour with us and we'd pull
over the side of the road and we'd make Kittery with rice and doll and you know,
faninere and uh,
cor Ann and Cuman and we just cook and cuz we wouldn't eat outside food because
if you did, you would feel you would, you would feel it.
You would feel it affect your mind.
Really?
I kid you, not that, that I can say there's certain things like, I don't know.
There's certain things that they speak about in ancient Indian literature that I
can say. I maybe, I don't know. So you think most.
People, but there's certain things.
I could say that I know. I definitely.
Experienced that you think most people are just numb to that numb to the effect
of taking in the consciousness of someone who's on a low vibration,
who's cooking your food. You're just numb to it.
You just eat the food cause you're.
Hungry. Um, are people they're.
Numb to it? The people that aren't aware of that concept, uh.
Yeah. People are aware of the con. I mean that's the point? I mean, for example,
a home cooked meal definitely feels yes. Tastes better,
tastes different or feels, feels different. Feels different. Yeah.
As opposed to some guy just yeah. You know,
making burgers it white castle or whatever. Yeah. Um, so, so I don't know.
It depends on the individual, but is this.
A perception or is it a, is it an actual energy? Oh, and does it matter?
I think it's both.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> there's, it's almost like fire's gonna burn whether it, I,
I believe it or not. Right.
But there's is there is a concept of once you get that food,
you don't eat the food,
you honor the food mm-hmm <affirmative> so it's not gonna be like me shoving
stuff in my mouth, which I do do occasionally. Right. Um,
if you see my eating habits,
but it should be more of a Medi the eating itself should be a meditation
and it's been proven. I'm not one of these guys. There's a thing.
That's, there's a similarity. That's gonna seem like it's not, it,
it like, it's not a parallel,
but in hunting when you hunting an animal and you kill that animal
and you butcher that animal and then you feed it to your family, it's a,
it sounds almost hypocritical.
It sounds like there's no way that would be a spiritual feeling,
but there's a connection to your food. That's very, very different.
Well, we've divorced ourself from killing animals.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> for the most part, for the most part,
most people hire people. Right?
Most people have no clue where their fruits come.
From-hmm <affirmative> their vegetables come from. What a co what, you know,
what a brussel sprouts look like when they grow. Right.
What do bananas look like when they grow? What, what is ground round? You know?
Right. So we've divorced ourself from our food.
I.